A lot of B2B marketing is boring as the
most important fact for me is being
remembered and standing out. And that's
why I do stupid stuff like dressed up
basically as as a Superman. Go around a
few towns locally and film funny stuff.
I think it's super important. If you
actually want to get the attention,
you've got to stand out. Podcasts are
bloody hard to grow. So, if you're
thinking of a quick hack, don't start a
podcast. Hello and welcome to this
episode of Breaking B2B. I'm your host
Tom Hunt and I'm here with this very
strange person, Sam. Who are you Sam?
I'm Sam Dunning and I'm also founder at
Breaking B2B. So, this is a bit of an
unusual one. So, we're going to talk
about something is very close to my
heart, B2B content marketing, which in
my eyes is like any content a B2B like
founder or business creates like on
social on LinkedIn or maybe they have an
email newsletter or maybe they have a
podcast and I want you to explain what
you do really well, which is like weird
top of the funnel content marketing
which is largely put on social. So,
specifically, I want to talk about SEO
man. Okay. SEO Man. Yeah. Yeah. So I
suppose I should probably share the
point of view to give some context
first. So I think a lot of B2B marketing
is boring as um especially in my space.
So B2B SEO. So SEOs love on LinkedIn and
similar channels to share tactics which
I do a fair bit of as well to educate
the market, share ideas, sharecase those
absolutely fine but all of it looks very
similar. It's all like text based or
video based or image based. So,
especially in kind of what I'd call like
boring B2B marketing fields, in my case,
SEO, even though I am an SEO and I do
SEO and there's many other sectors, I
think it's super important if you
actually want to get the attention,
you've got to stand out. And that's why
I do stupid stuff like one of those is
SEO man where dressed up basically as as
a Superman superhero. Go around a few
towns locally and film funny stuff like
it could be me telling a story that
somewhat involves SEO. It could be me
getting the public reactions to me in a
SEO crazy Superman costume. Um, all that
kind of stuff really. And we've done all
kinds of unusual ones that we post on
LinkedIn and YouTube from asking the
public B2B marketing questions to going
around with a sandwich board like we've
got today in London to anything we can
do to stand out, but most importantly,
it can link back to our products. So,
it's not just getting the attention,
it's the attention linking back to
brand. Have you had people come inbound
to you and say, "I'm here because
they're SEO man." So, as much as
marketers or founders probably don't
want to hear this, it's not direct lead
genen. But the most important fact for
me is being remembered and standing out
and the part that I do enjoy is that I
jump on a lot of sales calls, especially
from folks that come inbound through
channels like LinkedIn and they'll say,
I really love your man on the street
interviews or I really thought SEO man
was super funny. And that's where I know
it worked cuz they might not have came
inbound because they saw me interviewing
someone on the street or me dressed up
as SEO man, but that's what caught their
attention. and maybe they followed me.
Then maybe they saw some of my tips on
SEOs from my case studies and that kind
of stuff. And then 6 months, 12 months,
18 months later when they were ready,
they inquired. This for me, I think, is
the holy grail of B2B marketing.
Basically getting your ideal buyer to
know, like, and trust you before they
have to buy. And so SEO man, and this
top of the funnel, LinkedIn content is a
great example of this. Let's move down
the funnel a bit. Are you doing anything
B2B content wise with email a little
bit? So I suppose I've got two that the
exact opposite. One is we do a little
bit of cold email which I'm yet to crack
to be to be completely blunt. Like I was
chatting with you just now like we've
got a couple deals off it. Very simple
flow. So we target in our case we we
offer B2B and SAS SEO for revenue not
vanity. So we target like marketing
leaders, CMOs, VPs of marketing, heads
of marketing, heads of demand genen and
we do a super simple cold email that's
very blunt. It's like hey Steve or hey
Jess most marketing leaders tell me
pipelines's down. I've got an unusual
idea that might scale your inbounds. you
against me sending a a weird SEO review
or a weird video review and most people
open that email be like what the heck?
Um and they'll be like sure or things
like that and we'll send a Loom video
review and it gets it gets a small
response rate. Maybe for every 10 Loom
videos we send we get one meeting but
it's cold so it's it's a lot longer
sales cycle. And then on the warmer side
I run a newsletter that's the Breaking
B2B newsletter. And how do I fill that?
Well, that's from kind of LinkedIn
content. Folks that listen to the
breaking B2B podcast and we also do a
lead magnet which is a 90 days to
revenue SEO guide which I promote.
People download the guide, go into the
funnel, and that is just a weekday
emailer where I'll just share an unusual
tip, a case study, a podcast episode,
some SEO news, some weird B2B marketing
experiment I'm running, and then that
gets a small trickle of sales calls over
time. But most of this, you'll kind of
get the feeling that it's more to keep
top of mind for our offer, for our
product. Not a lot of it is kind of
direct lead genen. Yeah. Nice. So
essentially we're doing some crazy stuff
at the top of the funnel to get people's
attention and then ideally once they
learn a bit more about you, they come
and they're like, "Okay, yeah, I do need
to focus my SEO on revenue." And then
they opt in, then they get on the email
list and they learn more about that. Um,
and then what I think is the final
stage, if you think about what we're
doing, it's like less focused on what
you're doing at the top, less focused on
your business, but more controversial
and getting attention. And then the
email step is like, okay, maybe they're
starting to think about the the SEO,
etc. And then to to really deepen the
relationship, we can go to the podcast,
which I assume you advertise on the
email list. Exactly. Because it's the
hardest to grow, but it's the step where
you build the deepest relationship
because you're basically in their ears
every week. So talk about how the
podcast plays into the strategy, the B2
strategy. First of all, podcasts are
bloody hard to grow. So if you're
thinking of a quick hack, don't start a
podcast. You know this song cuz you've
been running your podcast for ages as
well. So, and my podcast, Breaking B2B,
is probably 5 or so years old. Painfully
slow growth, but that's actually because
I didn't start it with a strategy. So,
when I started the podcast, I basically
interviewed anyone and everyone. And it
was great because I interviewed sales
leaders, entrepreneurs, marketers, etc.
Leveled up myself. Really basically
learned everything I could have learned
from books, watching videos, doing stuff
the hard way. And then probably about 2
years ago, I fine-tuned it. So, I only
interviewed, in our case, our idol
client profile. So like marketing
leaders, demand generation leaders,
revenue leaders. So I could build up
relationships with them, interview them,
they could share their growth levers,
what's driving growth for their company.
So it gives actionable tips to whoever
listens or watches on YouTube or Apple
or Spotify. I'd also mix weaved in solo
episodes. So I'd give dedicated tips on
B2B SEO, SAS SEO experiments I'm running
to get kind of deeper relationship with
the audience and also show expertise and
trustworthiness and all that good stuff.
And then like you say, crossromote that
on LinkedIn, cross promote it to the
email list and then over time that
that's what builds the trust and that's
what eventually gets a steady trickle of
inbounds. None of it's fast, but the
leads that do come in, the pipeline, the
demos, the booked calls that do come in
from this stuff and nearly ready to buy
because they've trust they trust you so
much. They've listened to you or they've
watched you so much that they actually
kind of think you're you're ready to
deliver the job for them straight away.
Other thing I want to talk about is how
you can build in collabs throughout the
whole ladder of B2B content. So, social,
email, podcast. A key in my view like to
grow faster on any of those layers. If
you can access other people's audiences,
then this is going to help. For example,
fam is going to post this video on
LinkedIn. I'm also going to post this
video on LinkedIn which will cross
promote the audiences. Um, so can you
talk to me about how you've been able to
build collaborations through social,
email, and podcast? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So
folks like Tom, loads of others, I mean
podcasting is great for that because you
basically it gives you an excuse to
interview people or talk to people, have
a conversation with people that if you
cold call them, cold pitch them, cold
email them, they probably tell you to do
one. Whereas if you invite someone to an
event, whether it's a paid, whether it's
a dinner, whether it's a social thing,
but in this case podcast, people are
often humbled like and happy to do it.
So it's an easy in and it strikes up
that warm conversation. You talk about
something that's ideally in their area
of expertise. you then promote it after
builds up relationship. Some of those
will might eventually inquire and become
clients. Some of them might refer you or
some of them might promote you. And then
likewise, LinkedIn's a weird old beast.
It's a game. I often say LinkedIn's a
game. I'm still trying to learn it. But
yeah, it's a funny face if you do it
properly. If you post content on it, if
you engage in other folks posts that are
related to kind of I guess vaguely
related to your niche, you can strike up
relationships with people like Tom. Meet
them in real life perhaps. And then some
of those might become partners. Some of
them if you're on a podcast you might
interview. Some of them you might send
business to. Some of you might work
with. So it's B2B I suppose is more
about consistent conversation with folks
that could be potential prospects or
clients and also creating content for
the right kind of folks to be remembered
around what you do in a way that's
different. Let's finish off by you
giving a single tip. Again, we have a
early stage B2B founder that's trying to
maybe they have a few clients and
they're trying to just increase the
number coming in. What's like the number
one thing you would do? Number one tip
to increase kind of inbound client flow.
Do more of what works. So, this is this
is a tip that I'm guilty of not doing.
Like I tried to spread myself super
thin. Like naturally being a B2B SEO
agency, we're doing tons of SEO, trying
to do the newsletter, the podcast, post
on LinkedIn, build the partnership plays
and all that kind of stuff. when really
a lot of the time is just if you've got
I don't know early stage if you're 10 15
clients look what has driven the most
clients historically I did this recently
and I worked out like we're driving good
clients from SEO good from LinkedIn
content good from guesting on niche
relevant podcasts why don't we just do
more of that stuff um and often times
it's like doing the basics working out
what's driving good clients profitable
clients clients that have the problem
you solve that you enjoy working with or
in the niches that you can actually
serve good value and doing more of that
um if you haven't done that yet and you
need to build your first clients yeah
you need to work where those dream
clients hang out and work out a way
where they're either searching for what
you do or how you can strike
conversations with them or leverage your
network. But if you've got some clients,
then a lot of the time it's doing the
basics more often, which is a lesson to
myself more than anything. There we go,
guys. Focus on what works. Sam, thank
you for coming on my podcast. Thank you.